THE LIFE OF TERTULLIAN.' 155

ond and third centuries 'illustratori from the writings of Tertul
lian.l .
In genius'and style Tertullian is the Tacitus of ecclesiastical La-

tinity. Likehimagreat genius, ofthe same-fieryvigor, energy,and
eloquence, expressed in terse, epigramnratic style, often obscure
by its conciseness, its surprising images, and quaint antitheses.

Without the calm philosophie spirit, logical clement, and won.
derful power of generalitation of Tacitus, Tertullian is specula--
tire, impulsiva, impassioned, with exhaustless wit and sarcasm.

Whether contending with a heathen, heretic, or catholic, he
assails his antagonist with mercilcss satire, wit, and argument,
mixed vwith hyperbole, sophistry, and special plearling in his im-
petuous'onset He is sometimes oratorical and turgid, frequent-
ly harsh and obscure in the use of unusual vconstructionshlind
allusions, Latinized Greek, new-coined words, and perhaps Af-
rican provincialisms. But his writings, notwithstanding these
blemishes, are a storchouse of Patristic learning, especially valu-
able for their description 'of the existing state of Christian doc-
trines, of the constitution, worship, and customs of the Church,
and of the positions assumed hythe various sects of heretics.
Hc was the Puritan of the primitive Church—a stern, austere,
severe moralist, a zealous guardian and defendor of the Church
against the prevalent laxit'y of morals and heresies of the age.
“Theunyielding powerful exhibition of what was peculiarly
Christian, with an unceremonious reJection of all foreign ingre-
· dients, in sharp hostility to the existing world, forms the marked
distinction of Tertullian's spirit.” Such'is Neander's estimato of
the character of Tertullian² -

In his later life he ran to g‘reat extremes urging frequent fasts,
contempt of worldly conveniences, abstinence from second mar-
riage, and other mdnastic rigors. ψ At this time Montanus a hish-
op of Phrygia, who held these views of Christian conduct, gare
himself out as the promised Comforter, who was to tell all
thingsand mature the Christian system. He taught that all
true Christians receive inspirat-ion. Α large body of the Church

¹ S. Kaye, bishop ofLincoln, adsultim, 1818.
, ² Antignostieus, Introduction.

 

