110 nnn aran or rnnrunnmn.

tant one of all, the authenticity of the apostolic writings. For
this he makes the value of a testimony to dependon its antiq-
uity, and decides that ive are to hold that to be truc for us which
was held to be true in former ages. This appeal to antiquity
leads us back to the apostles’ day, and in deeiding what is the
authenticity of any vvriting which elaims to be apostolic, vve
must refer to those churehes which avere planted by the apos--
ties. Ι ask, then, is it creditable in any degree that this man, so ⁹
sagaciouS, could have acted hastily· and uneritically in accepting
the eredibility and authenticity of the four'evangelistst'’
'tertullian was an acute and learned scholar, a man of serious
mind, whose saith and hope and the salvation ofvhis soul de-
pended on the truth of the Scriptores. These, called in question·
by Marcion, vvere defended by Tertullian. He asserts in the
most express terms that in defending the apostolic origin of the
four evangelists he rests his ease upon the testimony 01 theapos-
tolie churehes, We must, then, be incorrigible sheptiesto doubt
that he had thoroughly examinedior himself the origin of these
Gospels. Ι
He lived vvithin a hundred years of the apostolic age, and
had the best possible advantages for investigating the authen-
ticity and divine authority 01 the Gospels. They vvere already
translated into Latin and Syriae. Their number was defined
to be four only, neither more nor less3 and this remarkable fact
is well calculated to throw light on the question of their age·
and origin. He quotes freely from the Old and the Nevv Testa-
ments Several hundred passages, according to Tischendorf, are
taken from the Gospels: troc darrrdred of 110100110051 are taken
from St. John. Gan this learned, acute, and scrupulous writer ,
by any possibility be mistaken in resting 1115 saith and hope on
the divine authority ο1 the four Gospels 01 Matthevv, Mark, Luke,
and J ohnl Such, in brief, is the argument for the authenticity'
and divine authority of these Sospels according to Tertullian.

 

