166 arm amn oa marmiun,

pleasure than acquittal. We have sent, therefore, this tract to.
you in no alarm about ourselves,but in much concern 101 you
and 101 all our enemies, to say nothing abent our friends. For
our religion· commands us to love even our enemies, and to pray
for those who persecute uS, aiming at a perfectiori all-its* own,
and secking in its disciples something 01 a higher type than
the commonplacc goodness 01 the world. For all love those
who love them, it is peculiar to Christiens alone to love those
that hate them. ’ Therefore, mourning overyoirr ignorancc and
compensionatin'g human error, ‘and looking for that future ’ 01
which every day shows threatening signs, necessity is laid on,
us to come forth in this manner, that we may set before you
the truths you will not listen to openly and publicly.''’

He proceeds to plead the peaceable, harmless characters 01
those> who are persecuted. Many erampleshe gives 01 provi-
dential judgm'ents falling upon theirs persecutore, and appeals to
the lenity and forbearance of other rulers. He reminds Scapula
of the inJ'ustice vof persecuting the best citizens 01 the state, rc-
affirms their purity 01 character, andexclaims: fauor. freedom
from crime so singular, for a probity so great, 101 righteousness,
for purity, for faithfulness, for truth, 101 the living God, we are
consigned to the flames. . . .

’ “What will you do with so many thousands, such multitudes
01 men and women, persons of every sex aur] every age and
every rank, when they present themselves before yout How
many fires, how many swords' will be required? What will be
the anguish 01 Oarthage itself, which yon will have to decimato,
as each one recognizes there his ,relatives and companions, as he
sees there, it may b⁴e,'men⁴ of your cwn order, and noble ladies,
and all the leading persens 01 the city, and either kinsmen or
friends 01 those 01 your own circlet Spare thyself-if 1101 us poor
Christiansi Spare Oarthagc, if notthyself! Spare the province,
which the indication 01 your purpose has subjeeted'lo'the threats
and extortions at once‘ofthe soldiers and 01 private enemies.

, “We have no master but eod. He is before you, and can not
be hidden from you; but 10 Him you can do ’110 inJ'ury. ⁴But
those whom you regard as masters are only men, and one day
they themselves must die. Yetstill this community 01 (ibris

 

