' 160 ran ern or 'rnnrnanran

this seet.’⁷ This is remarked as au occasion of grief, because a
detriment to the state, the inquiry never being raised whether
any latent good may corne fromthis reformation. Α Here only -
all human inquiry and reflection is laid to rest. Ignorance, ’
rather than knowledge, is desired. The intelligent reader will
not fail to notice the intimation that the whole Roman Empire
is in this latter half of the second century already pervaded
with this new religion, all which is ,confirmed by other author-
ities, particularly by this letter of Pliny to which Tertullian
refers,¹ which affirms the spread of Christianity to cities and
villages inhia provinces in Asia Minor, and the desertion of
the Pagan temples and general neglect of their offerings.
Such progress Christianity made in the first century fronr the
apostolic age, spreading its eonquests far and wide over the
Roman Empire, and carrying thern up evento (laesar’s house-
hold.² “ ’

The indicatione of the life and character of the Christians,
¹ their Ohurch organizations and religione belief, which are thick-
ly scattered orer the pages of Tertullian, should be carefully sc-
lected for study as the choieest gerns'of his cabinet. In the sec.
ond section he inferrus us that they niceta great wlnle before day
for their religious worship, as a precaution against the intrusion
oi their enemies. Boehrner has shown that these meetings bc·
fore the early clawn were continued far into the third century.³
Pliny, in the letter to which Tertullian refers, bears testimony of
their nreeting· on a stated day, the Christian sabbath, for their
religious rites3 another important fact to be noted. The senti-
rnents and usages of Christians relating to this day are elabo-
rately illustrated by Boehmer, to whom we ‘can only refer.4 The
honors paid to Christ as God (ctDco), or as to a God (qnasi Deo),
whichercr is accepted as the true interpretation, show that Christ
was the obJ'ect of adcretion as divine.

·²Apol.,§2.

‘¹' Many other authorities to the same effect are given hythe annota-
tion on this passage. Tertullian, vol. i.‚ p. 262, Edit. Migne.

³ J «H. Boehmer, Dissertat. De Antelucanis, Christianorum Coetibus.

4ΒΘ stato Christianorum die. < ’

 

