ran arra or rnarumrnrv. 163

from nothing has created the world, with its elements and spirits,
ior the glory of his maycsty. ιΗ1111 we worship, looking not to
the Roman capitol, but to heaven, the throne ofthe living God.¹’
In this strain, through severalsections, from the· tenth to the
eighteenth, our author triumphantly refutes the charge of irn-
piety in refusing to pay divine honors to the gods of their- ac-
0115015> ·

Next he explains the divine origin of the sacred Sc1·iptures,and
the translation of the Septuagint, the prophecies, the miracles,
and the death and resurrection of Christ—a record of which was

retained in the arohives of the Romans, reported to the Em· ·

peror Tiberius by Pontips Pilate. In acoordance with the
prevalent sentiment of the primitive Ohurch‚ Tertullian antici·
pated the speedy dissolution of the world3 and yet, while desir-
ing to depart-Ohristians are not unprcfitable citizens—hora-
c'ecs io firrctuosia a'a nepotiis-“ We live with you, having the
same foed, dress, furniture, and daily wants.¹ We voyage with
you, serve in your armies, labor in your fields, and traffic with
you'li . ι ¹ . ι Υ

In reply to the charge that Christiane were lacking in loy- Α
alty to theemperor, because they would not sacrifice for 1115·
health with other citizens, nor jorn with them in the celebratione
of *festivals to his honor, as unbeoorning and idolatrous, our
author proceeds to say: “We pray for the health of theem-
perors to the eternal, the true, the living God, whom even the
emperors themselves would rather have propitious to them than
all the rest. - They know who has given thern dominion. They
know,'as men, who has given thern life. They feel that he is
coo alone, in whose power alone they are, to whom they arc
second, after whom they are first, before all and above all gods.
And why notl since they are above all nren, who as living sure--
ly stand before the dead. They refiect how far the powers of
their empire avail, and thus they understand God. They ac-

* ι111101, § 30. Tertullian here finely contrasts the practices of the
Christiane with those of their Pagan adversaries: “Illuc suspicientes
Christiani, manibus expansis, quia innocuis3 capite nudo, quia non er
erubescimus3 denique, sine monitore, quiade pectore oramus.''

H

 

