renarra or rnarommw. 161

The covenant ,relation‘of Christians is worthy of special note,
in whichthey pledge themselves to be faithful to their religion,
forbidding murder, adultery, dishonesty, and other crimes. This
is discussed at length by Boehmer, and confirmed hy an cx-
tended citation of authorities.1

The reformation of character in Christiana, and their purity
of morale consequent upon their conversion, is largely insisted
on by Tertullian. The wife, once how wauton, how gay, has
now become chaste. The youth, so profligate, so devoted to his
lusts, has become gentle, obedient to his parents; and the servant
faithful to his master.2 ’ We never pollute the marriage-bed, we
are faithful to our words, we give aid to the needy, we render
to none evil for evil. For freedom from crime so singular, for
probity so' great, for ri ghteonsness, for purity, for faithfulness, for
truth, for the living God, we arecousigned to the flames³

Having exposed the injustioe ofthe hatred and persecutions of
which Christians are the subjects, Tertullian complains that they
are never allowed to vindicate themselves from the charges al-
leged against thern. Ι am charged with infanticide, with incest
-why no inquiry, no tortura to extort the trutht 1 am guilty

⁵ of crimes against the gods, against the emperors—why am Ι not
allowed a defense in law tt We are-condemned without trial.
We glory in ,our condemnation by such awretch as Nero, by
whom only some distinguished excellence was ever condemned.⁵
Domitian, another Nero in character, has honored ns with his
persecutions. Such have ever been our persecutore. The un-

just, the impious, the base, whom you yourselves condemn.

¹ In his denial of the crimes charged upon Christiane, Tertul-
lian retorts upon these revilers their own shocking immoralities
—infanticide, incest, licentiousness, murder, cannibalism. “In
part openly, in part secretly, practices prevail among you which

² J. H. Bochmer, De Confoederata Christianorum Disciplina.
² Apol, ᾗ 3.
³Ad Scapulam, ἓ 4; comp. Apol, ξ 39. 4§ 4.
⁵ ξ 5; comp. Tacitus, De Agricola, ἓ 2, “ Expulsis sapiaetia pro-
fessoribus atque omni bona arte in exillium, acta ne quid usquam ho-
* nestum occurreret.''

 

