154 rur: ama or carrucarum.

this wc have no record, nor, indeed, of his subsequent Christian
life. He was presbyter in Carthage, and probably also at Rome.
His conversion seems to have been as decisivo and effective as
that of the great apostlc of the Gentiles, In atter abhorrenco
of Paganism,'he 'becomes'the fearless defenderes Christianity
against unbeHevers of every type—hoamen, heretice, and 'J ews
Hc was the first of the fathers to bring out, like the apostle Paul,
in clear and perfect contrast, sin and grace abounding in human
life,

The Church was divided by Gnosticism, an attempt to inter-
pret and master the facts of Christianity, so as to make them ac-
cordwiththeGreekphilosophicalspeculation. “Ontheone-hand,
therc'was a tendency which was directly opposite to Gnosticism,
ancl repelled those elements of culture which Gnosticism' would·
have blended with Christianity3 to. the predominant speculative
tendency of Gnosticism it opposed the aims of practical Chris-
tianity, attaching itself with all its might simply to the facts of
Christianity, and rey'ecting with a firm religious realism all ideal-¹
istic subtleties. On the other hand,.there was a tendency which
in its striving after knowledge approximated to Gnosticism, rec-
ognized a real mental want which lay at its basis, and sought to
satisfyit by substituting for a false gnosis a true one foundedon
Christian principles⁷⁷1 . Tertullian was the representative* of the
first'tendency, Origen of the second.- Both‘Cyprian' and the great
Augustino, countrymen'of Tertullian, took the cast and the'color-
ing of their piety and their theology from him. Cyprian claims ⁵
Tertullian as his teaoher, and Augustino shows as clearly the im-
press‘of the'same great master on himself. Foremost in talent,
learning, and piety, he left the impress of his character upon'thc
Church for 'many generations Removed but a‘single‘cent'ury
from the age of the apostles, he stands in the forefront of the
Christian fathers, the representative of the primitive Christiane
and the expositor of their inner life, their saith-their Churoh
organization aud forms of worship: In this respect his vari-
ous tr·eatises and discussions are of priceless value. An En-
gHsh bishop, has published an Ecclesiastical History of the sec-

¹ Neander, Antignosticns Introduction. .

 

